## Projects

### Suda On Line
with Raphael Finkel, Bill Hutton, Catherine Roth, Ross Scaife, 
Elizabeth Vandiver, and David Whitehead, I am a member of the managing 
committee of the _Suda On Line_, a project to translate and annotate the 
10th-century Byzantine encyclopedic lexicon known as the _Suda_ or _Souda_ 
(sometimes referenced in older scholarship as the author "Suidas"). The _Suda_ 
is a rich source of information (and, bluntly, misinformation) about the 
classical Greek and Roman (and to some extent, Biblical) world, as well as an 
important milestone in early medieval European intellectual history.

The editorial methodology of the Suda On Line combines insights from 
traditional scholarly publishing, open source software development, and 
distributed collaboration [_2018 edit: now called "crowd-sourcing"_]. 
SOL entries are translated, annotated, and edited in real time by volunteer 
translators on a publicly accessible web server. Volunteers are evaluated by 
the editorial board for their ability to understand and translate medieval 
Greek, and are assigned entries they have requested when available. If an 
editorially acceptable translation is not ready within a specified time, the 
entry is marked for reassignment. The initial process of translation and 
annotation is thus distributed among volunteers around the world.

Unedited entries are marked as "draft" to indicate their provisional status, 
while edited entries are marked with an evaluative editorial status, "low" for 
entries which while reliable as far as they go may in the opinion of their 
editors require more revision, and "high" for entries which should be 
considered as the equivalent of a published scholarly translation. Editors are 
selected from among volunteers who request editorial status (and from among 
other volunteers) by the managing committee on the basis of their scholarly 
qualifications and demonstrated scholarly capabilities. Any editor may edit 
any entry; and editors have immediate editorial access while browsing entries, 
motivating editors to make immediate improvements when they are deemed as 
necessary. Thus the process of vetting and editing translations and annotations 
(and of adding annotations) is both distributed and collaborative, engaging 
many editors from around the world in the gradual refinement of each entry.

This editorial process, of on-line realtime distributed and collaborative 
translation and annotation is perhaps the most striking innovation of the 
_Suda On Line_. Two other innovations, however, are of importance: the 
volunteer-driven nature of the project, which reflects the nature of open 
source development and Internet technologies, and the constantly evolving 
state of the project database, which while it will some day achieve the same 
degree of completion as any print publication, will always remain a changing, 
constantly refined document.

### Unicode Polytonic Greek for the World Wide Web

[I had to abandon this project years ago because I no longer had the time
to devote to finishing or maintaining it. There are still bits of it
available on the web.]

This is a web book which I <del>have been slowly developing over the past two 
or three years which describes</del> _abandoned, which was intended to 
describe,_ [_2018 edit_] in often excruciating detail, how Unicode 
works and how to create Unicode-capable ancient Greek texts for publication on 
the World Wide Web. My ambition is to make this one part of a web-based book 
describing each of the standard technologies which may be used for the 
publication of materials for the classical humanities on the World Wide Web, 
especially XML, including both XHTML and TEIxLITE, as well as classics-specific 
technologies like EPIDOC, an XML vocabulary created by Tom Elliot and others 
for epigraphy which should also be adaptable to papyrology, and HEML, a markup 
language for historical events by Bruce Robertson, as well as demonstrating 
how customized XML vocabularies can be used in the structural analysis of 
classical texts using a demonstration vocabulary of my own design. This web 
book will include a number of sample texts: perhaps fragments from Greek 
tragedy, a inscription or two, a passage from Homer, etc. - all prepared in 
TEIxLITE or related vocabularies, XHTML, Unicode, and XSLT and CSS. It will 
also include a chapter on Web Publishing and Scholarly Standards, providing 
recommendations for the publication of scholarly works on the web which will 
enhance readers' ability to distinguish reliable from non-reliable works.

